Anchor bolt
Usually embedded in concrete or masonry for structural applications.

Carriage bolt
Used to fasten metal to timber, with a squared undercut to the head which holds the bolt in place once it has been tightened.

Elevator bolt
Commonly used in conveyor systems, an elevator bolt has a flat, plain or countersunk head which holds the bolt in place when tightened.

Flange bolt
Also known as frame bolts, this type of bolt distributes the bearing load using a washer on the undercut of the head.

Hanger bolt
This type of bolt comprises two threaded ends instead of having a head, one of which contains a wood screw.

Hexagon bolt/Tap bolt
A hexagon bolt comprises a head that has six sides, with threading that begins part-way down the shank, whereas a tap bolt’s shank is threaded the whole length.

Lag bolt
Also known as lag screws, this is a heavy-duty fastener that creates its own mating thread in timber and other soft materials when tightened.

Machine bolt
This type of bolt has a short shank and is intended for assembling metal components through predrilled holes.

Plow bolt
This type of bolt is commonly used in construction tools and other devices due to its durability, and is characterised by its flat countersunk head and square shank neck.

Sex bolt
Rather than requiring a nut, the shank of sex bolts are covered with a ‘mating’ female component. These are useful for fastening components that cannot be exposed to abrasive threads.

Square head bolt
This is similar to a machine bolt in that it has a short shank, in addition to a four-sided bolt head.

Stud bolt
This type of bolt has hexagon nuts on both ends. Components are fastened between the two bolts.

Timber bolt
Bolts that are meant for use with large timber components.

T-head bolt
Has a T-shaped head which can be gripped by a wench and can fit into a slot with ease.

Toggle bolt
This type of bolt has an expanding wing-like nut which helps it to mount objects to walls.

U-bolt
Similar to staples, U-bolts are bent in the shape of a ‘U’ and are partially threaded on both ends.